Definitions
When thinking about the topic at hand, it’s important to distinguish among three major terms: zero-day attacks, exploits, and vulnerabilities. Let’s define each:

Zero-day vulnerability – an inherent flaw in software code or in the way a piece of software interacts with other software that is yet to be discovered by the software vendor.

Zero-day exploit – an exploit based on a zero-day vulnerability; usually malicious software that uses a zero-day vulnerability to gain access to a target system.

Zero-day attack – the act of applying a zero-day exploit for malicious purposes; a true zero-day attack occurs when perpetrators are using a vulnerability currently unknown to the software vendor in order to compromise the system and perform malicious actions. The term pseudo zero-day attack describes examples such as WannaCry ransomware, where the exploit was already known to the software vendor but the cyberattack was still effective due to the failure of end-users to update their software.

Generally, in cybersecurity the term zero-day refers to the day when a new vulnerability is discovered by a software vendor. From that moment of zero-day detection, the clock is ticking for the vendor to produce a patch as quickly as possible.


How To Ensure Zero-Day Attack Prevention?
Zero-day vulnerabilities can present severe security risks, thereby exposing your systems to zero-day attacks. The damages can be far-reaching, which necessitates zero-day attack prevention.

Install a robust antivirus/antimalware software (preferably an AI-ML based solution) that can protect against both known and unknown threats.

Ensure to update the Operating systems, software and applications whenever the developer releases the updates. Delaying the updates can cause your systems to become vulnerable to zero-day attacks.

Ensure that your employees, clients, and vendors practice adopt reasonable online security practices.

Ensure security settings are configured appropriately for the OS, security software/solutions, and the internet browser for zero-day protection.

